ARTICLE XXXVII
GROUP LICENSING RIGHTS
Section 1. Rights Granted.
The Players Association, on behalf of present and future NBA players,
agrees that NBA Properties, Inc., during the term of the Agreement
between NBA Properties, Inc., and the National Basketball Players
Association, dated as of September 18, 1995, as amended January 20, 1999,
July 29, 2005 and December 8, 2011 (the "Group License Agreement"),
has the exclusive right to use the "Player's Attributes" of each NBA player
as such term is defined in, for such group licensing purposes as are set
forth in, and in accordance with the terms of the Group License
Agreement.
Section 2. Player Appearances.
A player may, during each Contract year covered by a Player Contract
to which he is a party, be required (a) to make up to four (4) appearances
at the request of and in connection with licensing arrangements made by
NBA Properties, Inc., in accordance with the terms of the Group License
Agreement, and (b) to make up to two (2) additional appearances at the
request of NBA Properties, Inc. in accordance with paragraph 13(d) of a
Uniform Player Contract and Article II, Section 8. Any appearance that a
player is required to make shall comply with the terms of Article II,
Section 8, and when a player makes an appearance in accordance with this
Section, he shall be paid at least \$3,000 (or, commencing with the 2017-18
Salary Cap Year, \$3,500). When a player fails, without reasonable excuse,
to appear or reasonably to cooperate during an appearance at any of the
licensing appearances referred to in this Section, he may be fined for each
failure in an amount up to \$20,000.
Section 3. Uniform.
(a) During any NBA game or practice, including warm-up periods and
going to and from the locker room to the playing floor, a player shall wear
only the Uniform as supplied by his Team. For purposes of the preceding
sentence only, "Uniform" means all clothing and other items (such as
kneepads, wristbands and headbands, but not including Sneakers) worn bya player during an NBA game or practice. "Sneakers" means athletic shoes
of the type worn by players while playing an NBA game.
(b) Other than as may be incorporated into his Uniform and the
manufacturer's identification incorporated into his Sneakers, a player may
not, during any NBA game, display any commercial, promotional, or
charitable name, mark, logo or other identification, including but not
limited to on his body, in his hair, or otherwise.