ARTICLE XXII
MEDICAL TREATMENT OF PLAYERS AND
RELEASE OF MEDICAL INFORMATION
Section 1. One Surgeon.
Each Team agrees that a player requiring the care and treatment of an
orthopedic surgeon will, so far as practicable, be referred to and treated by
one (1) orthopedic surgeon (rather than several).
Section 2. Committee of Team Physicians.
Representatives designated by the Players Association shall participate
in meetings of the committee of Team physicians appointed by the NBA
for the purpose of discussing matters related to the medical care and
treatment of players.
Section 3. Disclosure of Medical or Health Information.
(a) A Team physician may disclose all relevant medical information
concerning a player to (i) the General Manager, coaches, and trainers of
the Team by which such player is employed, (ii) any entity from which any
such Team seeks to procure, or has procured, an insurance policy covering
such player's life or any disability, injury or illness such player may suffer
or sustain, and (iii) subject to the terms of Section 3(d) below, the media or
public on behalf of the Team.
(b) Should it be requested in connection with the contemplated
assignment of a player's Uniform Player Contract to one or more NBA
Teams, a Team's physician may furnish all relevant medical information
relating to the player to (i) the physicians and General Manager, coaches,
and trainers of such other Team or Teams, and (ii) any entity from which
any such other Team seeks to procure, or has procured, an insurance
policy covering such player's life or any disability, injury or illness such
player may suffer or sustain.
(c) Should a Team assign a player to the NBADL, such Team's
physician may furnish all relevant medical information relating to the
player to (i) the NBADL, (ii) the physicians and General Manager, headcoaches, and trainers of the player's NBADL team, and (ii) any entity from
which the Team, the NBADL, or the player's NBADL team seeks to
procure, or has procured, an insurance policy covering such player's life or
any disability, injury or illness such player may suffer or sustain. In
addition, an NBADL team physician may furnish all relevant medical
information relating to the player to the physicians and General Manager,
coaches, and trainers of the player's Team.
(d) Subject to Section 3(e) below, each Team may make public medical
information relating to the players in its employ, provided that such
information relates solely to the reasons why any such player has not been
or is not rendering services as a player.
(e) A player or his immediate family (where appropriate) shall have the
right to approve the terms and timing of any public release of medical
information relating to any injuries or illnesses suffered by that player that
are potentially life- or career-threatening, or that do not arise from the
player's participation in NBA games or practices.
(f) A player is entitled access to his own medical records and the
Team shall use best efforts to provide such information on or before
forty-eight (48) business hours of a player request.
Section 4. Draftees.
Prior to any NBA Draft, the NBA and/or its Teams, acting jointly,
may request that persons eligible for such Draft voluntarily submit to the
administration of standardized medical or laboratory tests (other than tests
for controlled substances), and intelligence and/or personality tests, the
results of which shall be made available to any Team upon request, but
which shall be kept confidential from the public and the media. Any
person who submits to the administration of such tests may, prior to such
Draft, be requested to submit voluntarily to an examination by the
physician(s) for an NBA Team(s), but shall not be requested to undergo
any further medical or laboratory test administered at the request of the
NBA and/or its Teams acting jointly unless such follow-up testing is
deemed necessary by an NBA-appointed physician on the basis of the
initial testing results.Section 5. Selection of Team Physician and Other Health Care
Providers.
Each Team has the sole and exclusive discretion to select any doctors,
hospitals, clinics, health consultants, or other health care providers
("Health Care Providers") to examine and/or treat players pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement and the Uniform Player Contract; provided,
however, no Team will engage any such Health Care Provider based
primarily on a sponsorship relationship (or lack thereof) with the Team,
and without considering the Health Care Provider's qualifications
(including, e.g., medical experience and credentials) and the goal of
providing high quality care to all of its players.
Section 6. Health Screenings.
Players shall submit to reasonable screening and baseline testing (e.g.,
pursuant to NBA cardiac and concussion protocols) and, in connection
with such screening and testing, shall accurately and completely answer all
reasonable health questions (including, upon request, providing accurate
and complete medical histories).
Section 7. Electronic Medical Records.
The NBA may, during the Term, develop and implement an electronic
medical records system ("EMR") that will provide a secure, searchable,
centralized database of player health information. To the extent health
information disclosures are permitted by this Agreement (including the
Uniform Player Contract), such disclosures may be made via secure
systems within the EMR. In addition, the EMR will: (i) allow for the NBA
(but not the Teams) to conduct player health and safety reviews; (ii) allow
for authorized academic researchers to access the data (on a de-identified
basis) and conduct studies designed to improve player health and broaden
medical knowledge (provided that the Players Association will be provided
with notice prior to any such access and gives its consent, such consent
not to be unreasonably withheld); and (iii) give players the ability to easily
access their own health information and to grant access to such
information to physicians of their choice both during and after their
careers.Section 8. Concussion Policy.
(a) A concussion policy designed to maximize the neurological health
of players, which was developed in conjunction with the committee of
Team physicians, will be implemented beginning with the 2011-12 Season.
(b) The concussion policy will be reviewed periodically by the
committee of Team physicians in order to keep it current and consistent
with the evolving science of concussion management.