ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
Section 1. Definitions.
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
(a) "Active List" means the list of players, maintained by the NBA,
who have signed Player Contracts with a Team and are otherwise eligible
to participate in a Regular Season game.
(b) "Agreement" means this Collective Bargaining Agreement entered
into as of December 8, 2011.
(c) "Audit Report" or "final Audit Report" means the audit report
prepared in accordance with Article VII, Section 10.
(d) "Average Player Salary" means, with respect to any Salary Cap
Year, Total Salaries (plus any amounts paid by the NBA for such Salary
Cap Year pursuant to Article VII, Section 2(b)) divided by an amount
equal to the product of the number of Teams in the NBA (other than
Expansion Teams during their first two (2) Salary Cap Years) multiplied by
13.2.
(e) "Base Compensation" means the component of Compensation
other than bonuses of any kind.
(f) "Basketball Related Income" or "BRI" means basketball related
income as defined in Article VII, Section 1(a) and (b).
(g) "Benefits" or "Total Benefits" means the sum of all amounts paid
or to be paid on an accrual basis during any Salary Cap Year by the NBA
or NBA Teams, other than Expansion Teams during their first two Salary
Cap Years, for the specific benefits set forth in Article IV.
(h) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of the NBA.
(i) "Compensation" means the compensation that is or could be
earned by, or is paid or payable to, an NBA player (including playerswhose Player Contracts have been terminated) in accordance with a Player
Contract (whether such payment is sent to the player directly or to a
person or entity designated by a player).
(j) "Contract" (see "Uniform Player Contract").
(k) "Current Base Compensation" means the component of Base
Compensation other than Deferred Base Compensation.
(l) "Current Compensation" means the component of Compensation
other than Deferred Compensation.
(m) "Deferred Base Compensation" means the component of
Deferred Compensation other than bonuses of any kind.
(n) "Deferred Compensation" means the component of
Compensation for a Season that is payable to a player during the period
commencing after the May 1 following such Season, in accordance with
the rules set forth in Article VII. The determination of whether
Compensation is Deferred Compensation will be based upon the time set
by the Player Contract for the player to receive the Compensation, without
regard to whether the obligation is funded currently or secured in any
fashion.
(o) "Designated Player" means a player with whom a Team has,
pursuant to Article II, Section 7(d) and Article VII, Section 7(b), entered
into a Designated Player Rookie Scale Extension.
(p) "Designated Player Rookie Scale Extension" means an Extension
of a Rookie Scale Contract entered into between a Team and its
Designated Player that covers six (6) Seasons from the date the Extension
is signed and provides for Salary for the first Salary Cap Year covered by
the extended term equal to the player's applicable Maximum Annual Salary
under Article II, Section 7 (or, in the case of a First Round Pick who has
satisfied or may satisfy the 5th Year 30% Max Criteria (as set forth in
Article II, Section 7(a)(i)), provides for Salary for the first Salary Cap Year
equal to twenty-five percent (25%) or thirty percent (30%) (or such other
percentage between 25% and 30% as agreed upon by the Team and the
player) of the Salary Cap (as calculated pursuant to Article II, Section 7) in
effect during the first Season of the extended term), with annual increases
in Salary for each Salary Cap Year following the first Salary Cap Year ofthe extended term equal to seven and one-half percent (7.5%) of the Salary
for the first Salary Cap Year covered by the extended term. A Team may
at any point in time, in respect of any current or future Salary Cap Year,
have Salary included in its Team Salary in respect of: (i) a maximum of
one (1) Designated Player Rookie Scale Extension signed by the Team; and
(ii) a maximum of one (1) Designated Player Rookie Scale Extension
acquired by the Team by assignment.
(q) "Draft" or "NBA Draft" means the NBA's annual draft of Rookie
basketball players.
(r) "Early Qualifying Veteran Free Agent" means a Veteran Free
Agent who, prior to becoming a Veteran Free Agent, played under one or
more Player Contracts covering some or all of each of the two (2)
preceding Seasons, and who either played exclusively with his Prior Team
during such two (2) Seasons, or, if he played for more than one Team
during such period, changed Teams only (i) by means of trade, (ii) by
means of assignment via the NBA's waiver procedures (including without
limitation an assignment via the Amnesty Waiver Procedure set forth in
Article VII, Section 12(j)), or (iii) by signing with his Prior Team during the
first of the two (2) Seasons.
(s) "Early Termination Option" (or "ETO") means an option in favor
of a player to shorten the stated number of years covered by a Player
Contract in accordance with Article XII.
(t) "Effective Season" means, with respect to an Early Termination
Option, the first Season covered by the Early Termination Option. (For
example, if a Contract were to contain an Early Termination Option
exercisable following the 2015-16 Season, the Effective Season would be
the 2016-17 Season.)
(u) "Estimated Average Player Salary" means, for a particular Salary
Cap Year, one hundred four and one-half percent (104.5%) of the prior
Salary Cap Year's Average Player Salary.
(v) "Exception" means an exception to the rule that a Team's Team
Salary may not exceed the Salary Cap.(w) "Expansion Team" means any Team that becomes a member of
the NBA through expansion following the date of this Agreement and
commences play during the term of this Agreement.
(x) "Extension" means an amendment to a Player Contract
lengthening the term of the Contract for a specified period of years.
(y) "First Round Pick" means a player selected by a Team in the first
round of the Draft.
(z) "Free Agent" means: (i) a Veteran Free Agent; (ii) a Rookie Free
Agent; (iii) a Veteran whose Player Contract has been terminated in
accordance with the NBA waiver procedure; or (iv) a player whose last
Player Contract was a 10-Day Contract and who either completed the
Contract by rendering the playing services called for thereunder or was
released early from such Contract.
(aa) "Generally Recognized League Honors" means the following
NBA league honors awarded to players: NBA Most Valuable Player; NBA
Finals Most Valuable Player; NBA Defensive Player of the Year; NBA
Sixth Man Award; NBA Most Improved Player; All-NBA Team (First,
Second, or Third); NBA All-Defensive Team (First or Second); and All-
Star Team Selection.
(bb) "Inactive List" means the list of players, maintained by the NBA,
who have signed Player Contracts with a Team and are otherwise ineligible
to participate in a Regular Season game.
(cc) "Incentive Compensation" means the component of
Compensation consisting of one or more bonuses described in Article II,
Sections 3(b)(ii) and (iii) and 3(c).
(dd) "Likely Bonus" means Incentive Compensation included in a
player's Salary in accordance with Article VII, Section 3(d).
(ee) "Maximum Annual Salary" means the maximum amount of
Salaries and Unlikely Bonuses a player is eligible to receive in the first
Salary Cap Year covered by a Contract or Extension as calculated in
accordance with Article II, Section 7.(ff) "Member" or "Team" means any team that is a member of the
NBA.
(gg) "Minimum Annual Salary" means the minimum Salary that must
be included in a Player Contract that covers the entire Regular Season in
accordance with Article II, Section 6(a).
(hh) "Minimum Annual Salary Scale" means the scale annexed hereto
as Exhibit C.
(ii) "Minimum Player Salary" means: (i) with respect to a Contract
that covers the entire Regular Season, the Minimum Annual Salary called
for under Article II, Section 6(a); (ii) with respect to a Rest-of-Season
Contract, the Minimum Annual Salary called for under Article II,
Section 6(a) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
of days remaining in the NBA Regular Season as of the date such Rest-of-
Season Contract is entered into, and the denominator of which is the total
number of days of that NBA Regular Season; and (iii) with respect to a 10-
Day Contract, the Minimum Annual Salary called for under Article II,
Section 6(a) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
of days covered by the Contract and the denominator of which is the total
number of days of that NBA Regular Season.
(jj) "Minimum Team Salary" means the minimum Team Salary a
Team must have for a Salary Cap Year as determined in accordance with
Article VII, Section 2(b).
(kk) "Moratorium Period" means:
(i) With respect to the 2012-13 Salary Cap Year, the period
July 1, 2012 through July 10, 2012.
(ii) With respect to the 2013-14 Salary Cap Year, the period
July 1, 2013 through July 9, 2013.
(iii) With respect to the 2014-15 Salary Cap Year, the period
July 1, 2014 through July 9, 2014.
(iv) With respect to the 2015-16 Salary Cap Year, the period
July 1, 2015 through July 8, 2015.(v) With respect to the 2016-17 Salary Cap Year, the period
July 1, 2016 through July 11, 2016.
(vi) With respect to the 2017-18 Salary Cap Year, the period
July 1, 2017 through July 11, 2017.
(vii) With respect to the 2018-19 Salary Cap Year, the period
July 1, 2018 through July 10, 2018.
(viii) With respect to the 2019-20 Salary Cap Year, the period
July 1, 2019 through July 9, 2019.
(ix) With respect to the 2020-21 Salary Cap Year, the period
July 1, 2020 through July 8, 2020.
(ll) The term "negotiate" means, with respect to a player or his
representatives on the one hand, and a Team or its representatives on the
other hand, to engage in any written or oral communication relating to the
possible employment, or terms of employment, of such player by such
Team as a basketball player, regardless of who initiates such
communication.
(mm) "Non-Qualifying Veteran Free Agent" means a Veteran Free
Agent who is not a Qualifying Veteran Free Agent or an Early Qualifying
Veteran Free Agent.
(nn) "Option" means an option in a Player Contract in favor of a
Team or player to extend such Contract beyond its stated term.
(oo) "Option Year" means the year that would be added to a Player
Contract if an Option were exercised.
(pp) "Performance Bonus" means any Incentive Compensation
described in Article II, Section 3(b)(ii).
(qq) "Player Contract" (see "Uniform Player Contract").
(rr) "Prior Team" means the Team for which a player was last under
Contract prior to becoming a Qualifying Veteran Free Agent, Early
Qualifying Veteran Free Agent or a Non-Qualifying Veteran Free Agent.(ss) "Qualifying Offer" means a qualifying offer as defined in Article
XI, Section 1(c).
(tt) "Qualifying Veteran Free Agent" means a Veteran Free Agent
who, prior to becoming a Veteran Free Agent, played under one or more
Player Contracts covering some or all of each of the three (3) preceding
Seasons, and who either played exclusively with his Prior Team during
such three (3) Seasons, or, if he played for more than one Team during
such period, changed Teams only (i) by means of trade, (ii) by means of
assignment via the Amnesty Waiver Procedure set forth in Article VII,
Section 12(j), or (iii) by signing with his Prior Team during the first of the
three (3) Seasons.
(uu) "Regular Salary" means a player's Salary, less any component
thereof that is a signing bonus (or deemed a signing bonus in accordance
with Article VII) and any component thereof that is Incentive
Compensation.
(vv) "Regular Season" means, with respect to any Season, the period
beginning on the first day and ending on the last day of regularly scheduled
(as opposed to exhibition or playoff) competition between NBA Teams.
(ww) "Renegotiation," "renegotiate," or "renegotiated" means a
Contract amendment that provides for an increase in Salary and/or
Unlikely Bonuses.
(xx) "Replacement Player" means, where appropriate, either a player
who is acquired by a Team pursuant to the Traded Player Exception, or a
player who is signed or acquired by a Team pursuant to the Disabled
Player Exception.
(yy) "Required Tender" means an offer of a Uniform Player Contract
to a Draft Rookie, signed by the Team, that: (i) on or before the date
specified in Article X is either personally delivered to the player or his
representative or sent by pre-paid certified, registered, or overnight mail to
the last known address of the player or his representative; (ii) with respect
to a First Round Pick, (A) affords the player until at least the first day of
the following Regular Season to accept, and (B) satisfies the requirements
of a Rookie Scale Contract set forth in Article VIII, Section 1 or 2; and
(iii) with respect to a Second Round Pick, (A) affords the player until atleast the immediately following October 15 to accept, (B) has a stated term
of one (1) Season, and (C) calls for at least the Minimum Annual Salary
then applicable to the player. In addition, a Team shall be permitted to
include in any Required Tender an Exhibit 6 to the Uniform Player
Contract requiring that the player, if he signs the Required Tender, pass a
physical examination to be performed by a physician designated by the
Team as a condition precedent to the validity of the Contract.
(zz) "Restricted Free Agent" means a Veteran Free Agent who is
subject to a Team's right of first refusal in accordance with Article XI.
(aaa) "Rookie" means a person who has never signed a Player
Contract with an NBA Team.
(i) "Draft Rookie" means a Rookie who is selected in the
NBA Draft.
(ii) "Non-Draft Rookie" means a Rookie who is not selected
in the NBA Draft for which he is first eligible.
(bbb) "Rookie Free Agent" means: (i) a Draft Rookie who, pursuant
to the provisions of Article VIII, Section 3 or Article X, is no longer
subject to the exclusive negotiating rights of any Team, and who may be
signed by any Team; or (ii) a Non-Draft Rookie.
(ccc) "Rookie Salary Scales" means the tables annexed hereto as
Exhibit B.
(ddd) "Rookie Scale Amounts" means the amounts set forth in the
tables annexed hereto as Exhibit B.
(eee) "Rookie Scale Contract" means the initial Uniform Player
Contract entered into, in accordance with Article VIII, Section 1 or 2,
between a First Round Pick and the Team that holds his draft rights.
(fff) "Room" means the extent to which: (i) a Team's then-current
Team Salary is less than the Salary Cap; or (ii) a Team is entitled to use one
of the Salary Cap Exceptions set forth in Article VII, Section 6(c), (d), (e),
(f), (g) and (j) (Disabled Player Exception, Bi-annual Exception, Non-
Taxpayer Mid-Level Salary Exception, Taxpayer Mid-Level SalaryException, Mid-Level Salary Exception for Room Teams and Traded
Player Exception).
(ggg) "Salary" means, with respect to a Salary Cap Year, a player's
Compensation with respect to the Season covered by such Salary Cap
Year, plus any other amount that is deemed to constitute Salary in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, not including Unlikely
Bonuses, any benefits the player received in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement (including, e.g., the benefits provided for by Article IV, per
diem, and moving expenses), and any portion of the player's
Compensation that is attributable to another Salary Cap Year in
accordance with this Agreement. Salary also includes any consideration
received by a retired player that is deemed to constitute Salary in
accordance with the terms of Article XIII.
(hhh) "Salary Cap" means the maximum allowable Team Salary for
each Team for a Salary Cap Year, subject to the rules and exceptions set
forth in this Agreement.
(iii) "Salary Cap Year" means the period from July 1 through the
following June 30.
(jjj) "Season" or "NBA Season" means the period beginning on the
first day of training camp and ending immediately after the last game of the
NBA Finals.
(kkk) "Second Round Pick" means a player selected by a Team in the
second round of the Draft.
(lll) "Team" or "NBA Team" (see "Member").
(mmm) "Team Affiliate" means:
(i) any individual or entity who or which (directly or indirectly)
holds an ownership interest in a Team (other than ownership
of publicly-traded securities constituting less than five
percent (5%) of the ownership interests in a Team) (an
"Owner");
(ii) any individual or entity who or which (directly or indirectly)
controls, is controlled by or is under common control with,or who or which is an entity affiliated with or an individual
related to, a Team;
(iii) any individual or entity who or which (directly or indirectly)
controls, is controlled by or is under common control with,
or who or which is an entity affiliated with or an individual
related to, an individual or entity described in Section
1(mmm)(i) or (ii) above; or
(iv) any entity as to which (x) an Owner, or (y) an individual or
entity that holds (directly or indirectly) an ownership interest
in an entity described in Section 1(mmm)(ii) above, either
(a) holds (directly or indirectly) more than five percent (5%)
of its ownership interests, or (b) participates in or influences
its management or operations.
For the purposes of this Section 1(mmm): an individual shall only be
deemed to be "related to" a Team or another individual or entity if such
individual is an officer, director, trustee, or executive employee of such
Team or entity, or is a member of such individual's immediate family; and
"controls" or "is controlled by" shall include (without limitation) the
circumstance in which an individual or a Team or entity has or can exercise
effective control.
(nnn) "Team Salary" means, with respect to a Salary Cap Year, the sum
of all Salaries attributable to a Team's active and former players plus other
amounts as computed in accordance with Article VII, less applicable credit
amounts as computed in accordance with Article VII.
(ooo) "Total Salaries" means the total Salaries included in the Team
Salary of all NBA Teams for or with respect to a Salary Cap Year in
accordance with this Agreement, other than the Salaries included in the
Team Salary of Expansion Teams during their first two Salary Cap Years,
as determined in accordance with Article VII. For purposes of this
definition: (i) Total Salaries shall include all Incentive Compensation
excluded from Salaries in accordance with Article VII, Section 3(d) but
actually earned by NBA players during such Salary Cap Year, and shall
exclude all Incentive Compensation included in Salaries in accordance with
Article VII, Section 3(d) but not actually earned by NBA players during
such Salary Cap Year; (ii) Total Salaries shall include any amounts paid bythe NBA to the Players Association for distribution to NBA players
pursuant to Article XXIX, Section 3(c); (iii) Total Salaries shall include the
aggregate Salaries, if any, that are excluded from Team Salaries pursuant to
Article VII, Section 4(h) and Article VII, Section 12(f)(5); (iv) Total
Salaries shall include any amounts that a Team pays to its players pursuant
to Article VII, Section 2(b); and (v) Total Salaries shall include any
consideration received by a retired player that is included in Team Salary in
accordance with the terms of Article XIII.
(ppp) "Total Salaries and Benefits" means the sum of Total Salaries
plus Total Benefits.
(qqq) "Traded Player" means a player whose Player Contract is
assigned by one Team to another Team other than by means of the NBA
waiver procedure (including the waiver procedures set forth in Article VII,
Section 12(j)).
(rrr) "Uniform Player Contract" or "Player Contract" or "Contract"
means the standard form of written agreement between a person and a
Team required for use in the NBA by Article II, pursuant to which such
person is employed by such Team as a professional basketball player.
(sss) "Unlikely Bonus" means Incentive Compensation excluded from
a player's Salary in accordance with Article VII, Section 3(d).
(ttt) "Unrestricted Free Agent" means a Free Agent who is not
subject to a Team's right of first refusal.
(uuu) "Veteran" or "Veteran Player" means a person who has signed at
least one Player Contract with an NBA Team.
(vvv) "Veteran Free Agent" means a Veteran who completed his
Player Contract (other than a 10-Day Contract) by rendering the playing
services called for thereunder.
(www) "Years of Service" means the number of years of NBA service
credited to a player in accordance with the following: a player will be
credited with one (1) year of NBA service for each year that he is on an
NBA Active List or Inactive List for one (1) or more days during the
Regular Season. Notwithstanding the above, a player will not receive
credit for a Year of Service for any year in which he: (i) withholds playingservices called for by a Player Contract or this Agreement for more than
thirty (30) days after the Season begins, or (ii) is a Restricted Free Agent,
has been tendered a Qualifying Offer by his Prior Team and the Prior
Team has extended the date by which the player may accept the Qualifying
Offer until March 1 in accordance with the Article XI, Section 4(c)(i), and
has not signed a Player Contract with any Team by March 1. In addition,
notwithstanding the above, a player will not receive credit for a Year of
Service for being on an NBA Active List or Inactive List as a result of
signing a Player Contract that is disapproved by the Commissioner. In no
event can a player be credited with more than one (1) Year of Service with
respect to any one NBA Season. A Year of Service will be credited to a
player on the June 30 following the Season with respect to which it is
being credited. Under no circumstances shall the definition of Years of
Service herein be used for purposes of determining a player's years of
credited service under the NBA Players' Pension Plan. Players shall be
credited with Years of Service pursuant to this Section 1(www) only in
respect of Seasons covered by this Agreement. Years of Service credit for
Seasons prior to the 2005 NBA/NBPA Collective Bargaining Agreement
shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the 1999
NBA/NBPA Collective Bargaining Agreement.