ARTICLE XXIX
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1. Active Roster Size.
Each Team agrees to have twelve (12) or thirteen (13) players on its
Active List and to have a minimum of eight (8) players on the bench for all
Regular Season games. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Team may
from time to time as appropriate, but for no more than two (2)
consecutive weeks at a time during the Regular Season, have eleven (11)
players on its Active List.
Section 2. Inactive Roster.
Each Team agrees to have one (1) player on its Inactive List for all
Regular Season games. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any Team that
has eleven (11) or twelve (12) players on its Active List may from time to
time as appropriate, but for no more than two (2) consecutive weeks at any
time during the Regular Season, have no players on its Inactive List, and
(ii) any Team that has thirteen (13) players on its Active List is not required
to have any players on its Inactive List.
Section 3. Minimum League-Wide Roster.
(a) For each Regular Season covered by this Agreement, NBA Teams
shall, in the aggregate, employ an average of no less than fourteen (14)
players per Team.
(b) The NBA's satisfaction (or not) of Section 3(a) above shall be
measured following each Regular Season as follows:
STEP 1: For each player signed to a Player Contract (including a Rest-of-
Season or 10-Day Contract) during a Regular Season, determine
the number of days during such Regular Season that such player
was carried on his Team's Active List or Inactive List (hereinafter
"Duty Days").
STEP 2: Determine the total Duty Days for all players for such Regular
Season by adding together the results for each player from Step 1.STEP 3: Multiply (x) the number of NBA Teams that played games
during the applicable Regular Season, by (y) 2,300 days.
STEP 4: If, for a Regular Season, (x) the result in Step 2 above is equal to
or greater than the result in Step 3 above, then the NBA has
satisfied its obligation under subsection (a) above for such
Regular Season, or (y) the result in Step 2 above is less than the
result in Step 3 above (the difference hereinafter described as
"the Shortfall"), then the NBA has failed to satisfy its obligation
under Section 3(a) above for such Regular Season.
(c) If the NBA fails to satisfy its obligation under Section 3(a) above
for a Regular Season, then it shall be required to make a payment to the
Players Association equal to (i) the Shortfall, times (ii) the Minimum Player
Salary for a player with one (1) Year of Service divided by the number of
calendar days during such Regular Season. Any such payment shall be
made to the Players Association by August 1 following the applicable
Season, and shall be distributed by the Players Association to all NBA
players who were on the Active List or Inactive List of an NBA team
during the applicable Regular Season, on such proportional basis as may
reasonably be determined by the Players Association; provided, however,
that the amount of any payment the NBA is required to make for a Season
pursuant to this Section 3(c) shall be reduced by any Overage remaining
after applying any reductions required under Article VII, Section 12(b)(i).
Section 4. Playing Rules and Officiating.
(a) One representative of the Players Association shall be permitted to
attend the meetings of and have a vote on the NBA Competition
Committee with respect to issues relating to the NBA playing rules and
officiating.
(b) The Players Association may, on behalf of the players, annually
submit to the Commissioner one (1) written critique of referees, without
reference to any individual referee.
Section 5. Playoffs.
(a) The number of Teams participating in the playoffs shall equal
sixteen (16). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the NBA shall have the right
to increase the number of Teams participating in the playoffs.(b) Each round of the playoffs shall be played in a best-of-seven-
games format.
Section 6. Game Tickets.
(a) In the event that a Team provides home-game tickets to its players,
seat locations must be allocated to players based on seniority, with the
most senior players (based on years of NBA service) receiving the most
favorable seat locations.
(b) NBA Teams shall provide four (4) tickets to authorized
representatives of the Players Association to any home game at box office
prices, provided notice of such request is given at least forty-eight (48)
hours before the game.
(c) Each Team agrees to provide retired players with three (3) or more
years of NBA service with the opportunity to purchase two (2) tickets at
box office prices to its NBA home games, and to hold such tickets for
such players, provided tickets are available and the retired players provide
the Team with forty-eight (48) hours advance notice of their desire for
such tickets.
Section 7. Release for Fighting.
Each NBA Team (hereinafter "such Team") hereby releases and
waives every claim it may have against any player employed by other NBA
Teams for injuries sustained by any player in the employ of such Team
which arise out of, or in connection with, any fighting or other form of
violent and/or unsportsmanlike conduct during the course of any
Exhibition, Regular Season, and/or Playoff game.
Section 8. Limitation on Player Ownership.
During the term of this Agreement, no NBA player may acquire or
hold a direct or indirect interest in the ownership of any NBA Team or in
any company or entity, whether privately or publicly owned, that owns any
interest in any NBA Team; provided, however, that any player may have
an ownership of publicly-traded securities constituting less than five
percent (5%) of the ownership interests in a company or entity that
directly or indirectly owns an NBA Team.Section 9. Nondisclosure.
The parties agree that (a) the economic terms of any individual
Uniform Player Contract entered into by a Team and a player, and (b) any
information contained in, or disclosed to the Players Association in
connection with an Audit Report, Draft Audit Report, Interim Audit
Report, Interim Escrow Audit Report, BRI Report, Escrow Schedule, or
Notice to Escrow Agent, shall not be disclosed to the media by (i) the
NBA, its Teams, or their respective employees, or (ii) the Players
Association, NBA players, or their respective employees, agents, or
representatives.
Section 10. Implementation of Agreement.
(a) The NBA and the Players Association will use their respective best
efforts to have NBA Teams and NBA players comply with the terms and
provisions of this Agreement.
(b) The NBA and the Players Association shall use their respective
best efforts and take all reasonable steps to cooperate to defend the
enforceability of this Agreement against any challenge thereto.
Section 11. Additional Canadian Provisions.
(a) The bases upon which a player may be disciplined or discharged or
a Player Contract terminated, as set forth in this Agreement and/or in the
Uniform Player Contract, shall constitute just and reasonable cause within
the meaning of any applicable Canadian statute (federal or provincial) and,
to the extent this Agreement or the Uniform Player Contract provides
specific penalties for such conduct, those penalties shall apply.
(b) During the term of this Agreement, the NBA and Players
Association shall consult regularly about issues relating to the workplace
which affect the parties or any player bound by this Agreement.
(c) If and to the extent Sections 48 and 49 of the Ontario Labour
Relations Act are or may be found applicable to this Agreement, the
parties agree that the provisions thereof shall apply only to disputes
between the Toronto Raptors and players for the Toronto Raptors.
Furthermore, the parties agree and acknowledge that any termination and
severance benefits provided to players pursuant to this Agreement(including the provisions of Player Contracts that provide, in certain
circumstances, for the continued payment of Salary to a player following
the termination of a Player Contract) constitute and/or shall be deemed to
constitute a greater right or benefit to the Player pursuant to Section 5(2)
of the Employment Standards Act, 2000 (Ontario) and the provisions of
Sections 54-66 of such Act do not apply.
(d) The parties acknowledge and agree that a player employed by an
NBA Team pursuant to the provisions of a Uniform Player Contract, a 10-
Day Contract, or a Rest-of-Season Contract is and/or shall be deemed to
be an "employee hired on the basis that his employment is to terminate on
the expiry of a definite term or the completion of a specific task" within
the meaning of paragraph 1 of Section 2(1) of Ontario Regulation 288/01
under the Ontario Employment Standards Act, 2000, so as to render
inapplicable to NBA players the provisions of Sections 54-62 of such Act.
(e) The parties acknowledge and agree that the severance benefits
provided to players pursuant to this Agreement (including the provisions
of Player Contracts that provide, in certain circumstances, for the
continued payment of Salary to a player following the termination of a
Player Contract) constitute and/or shall be deemed to constitute a
settlement binding on the player within the meaning of Section 6 of the
Ontario Employment Standards Act, 2000, and/or "an amount paid to an
employee for loss of employment under a provision of an employment
contract based upon length of employment, length of service or seniority"
within the meaning of paragraph 2 of Section 65(8) of the Ontario
Employment Standards Act, 2000, so as to render inapplicable to NBA
players the provisions of Sections 63-66 of such Act.
(f) Upon the NBA's request, the Players Association shall cooperate
with the NBA in a reasonable manner in connection with any effort the
NBA may make to seek an exemption from any Canadian (federal or
provincial) law or regulation affecting the employment relationship that is
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement or any other agreement
between the Players Association and the NBA (or NBA Properties) or
between any player and any NBA Team.
(g) All players employed by NBA Teams shall be paid in U.S. dollars,
regardless of where such Teams are located.Section 12. Gate Reports.
The NBA shall provide the Players Association with reports regarding
each Team's gate receipts and paid attendance as of the date two (2) weeks
prior to the date of each report. The reports shall be provided on or
before the following dates each Season: December 31 (except in the 2011-
12 Season); February 28; April 30; and July 31.