ARTICLE XLI
NBA DEVELOPMENT LEAGUE
Section 1. NBADL Work Assignments.
(a) With respect to the 2011-12 NBA Season, an NBA Team may at
any time assign a player on its Active List or Inactive List to an NBA
Development League ("NBADL") team, provided that the player (i) has
either zero (0) or one (1) Years of Service at the time of the assignment, or
(ii) has more than one (1) year of service at the time of the assignment and
the player and the Players Association consent to such assignment in
writing. With respect to the 2012-13 through 2021-22 NBA Seasons, an
NBA Team may at any time assign a player on its Active List or Inactive
List to an NBADL team, provided that the player (i) has either zero (0),
one (1) or two (2) Years of Service at the time of the assignment, or (ii) has
more than two (2) years of service at the time of the assignment and the
player and the Players Association consent to such assignment in writing.
Upon such assignment ("NBADL Work Assignment"), the player will be
placed on the NBA Team's Inactive List, and shall (i) report to the
NBADL team (and render for the NBADL team such services as the
player is required to render for the NBA Team under his Uniform Player
Contract and this Agreement), and (ii) at the direction of the NBA Team,
subsequently return and report to, and resume the performance of services
for, the NBA Team. An NBADL Work Assignment commences when
the player reports in-person to the NBADL team, and ends either when
the player, upon being recalled, reports back to his NBA Team or when
the NBADL season concludes.
(b) No player shall be given more than three (3) NBADL Work
Assignments during the 2011-12 NBA Season. There shall be no limit on
the number of NBADL Work Assignments given to a player in any
subsequent Season during the 2012-13 through 2020-21 NBA Seasons.
No NBA Team shall issue an NBADL Work Assignment for the purpose
of disciplining a player for misconduct or retaliating against a player for
exercising any right that he has under this Agreement or the Uniform
Player Contract.(c) The NBA may establish reasonable rules regarding the assignment
and recall of players to the NBADL provided that such rules do not violate
the provisions of this Article XLI.
Section 2. Reporting Requirements for NBADL Work
Assignments.
(a) In order to initiate an NBADL Work Assignment or terminate
such assignment and recall the player, the NBA Team shall provide the
player, the NBA, and the Players Association with written notice. The
player shall report to the NBADL team or NBA Team, whichever is
applicable, within forty-eight (48) hours after such notice is received by the
player.
(b) If the player, without a reasonable excuse, does not report to the
NBADL team or NBA Team, whichever is applicable, within the time
provided in Section 2(a) above, the player may be fined and/or suspended
without pay by the NBA Team until such time as he reports. In addition,
such failure to report, without a reasonable excuse, shall constitute conduct
prejudicial to the NBA under Article 35(d) of the NBA Constitution.
Section 3. Travel and Relocation Expenses.
A player's NBA Team shall be obligated to reimburse the player for his
ordinary and reasonable expenses incurred in (a) traveling to and, when
recalled, from the NBADL team to begin and/or end any NBADL Work
Assignment, and (b) relocating to and, if recalled, from the NBADL team's
home location to begin and/or end any NBADL Work Assignment that
extends beyond a period of thirty (30) days. During any NBADL Work
Assignment, the player will be provided with housing or a housing subsidy
in accordance with the NBADL housing policy.
Section 4. Terms of NBADL Work Assignment.
(a) General Terms. During or in connection with any NBADL
Work Assignment, and except as expressly set forth in, or limited or
modified by, this Article, a player shall (i) accept and be subject to the
work requirements and conditions applicable to NBADL players (as such
requirements and conditions may change from time to time), and
(ii) continue to be subject to the terms and obligations and entitled to thebenefits and rights (including, without limitation, Years of Service and free
agency rights) of his Uniform Player Contract and this Agreement.
(b) Compensation and Benefits.
(i) During or in connection with any NBADL Work
Assignment, the player (A) shall continue to receive the
Compensation called for by his Uniform Player Contract,
and (B) shall not receive (or accept) any compensation of
any kind from the NBADL or any NBADL team other
than as expressly set forth in this Article. The player's
performance in the NBADL shall not be considered for
purposes of any Incentive Compensation contained in his
Uniform Player Contract.
(ii) Any Compensation protection provided to a player in his
Uniform Player Contract shall remain in effect during an
NBADL Work Assignment. For purposes of Article II,
Section 4, an injury sustained while participating in a
basketball practice or game for an NBADL team shall be
deemed an injury sustained while participating in a
basketball practice or game for the NBA Team.
(iii) During or in connection with any NBADL Work
Assignment, a player (A) shall continue to be eligible to
receive the benefits set forth in Article IV of this
Agreement to the extent that such player would have been
eligible to receive such benefits under this Agreement
absent the NBADL Work Assignment, and (B) shall not be
eligible to receive (and shall not accept) any benefits from
the NBADL or any NBADL team, unless expressly set
forth in this Article.
(iv) To the extent necessary, any plans and/or policies
described in Article IV of this Agreement shall be amended
to implement the provisions of Section 4(b)(iii) of this
Article.
(c) Meal Expense. While on the road with his NBADL team during
an NBADL Work Assignment, the player (i) shall receive the meal expenseallowance applicable to NBA players, in accordance with the terms of
Article III, Section 2 of this Agreement, and (ii) shall not receive (or
accept) any meal expense or per diem from the NBADL or any NBADL
team.
(d) Travel Accommodations. During an NBADL Work
Assignment, the player shall be provided with the same travel
accommodations (including, but not limited to, transportation and hotel
arrangements for "road" games) that are provided to NBADL players
pursuant to applicable NBADL policies, except that: (i) the player shall not
be required to share a hotel room; and (ii) the player shall be permitted to
fly first class when traveling by air with his NBADL team to road games to
the extent first class seats are available on his NBADL team's flight.
(e) Conduct and Discipline.
(i) During any NBADL Work Assignment, the player will:
(A) observe and comply with all rules and policies of the
NBADL or his NBADL team at all times, whether on or
off the playing floor; (B) give his best services, as well as
his loyalty, to the NBADL team; (C) be neatly and fully
attired in public; (D) conduct himself on and off the court
according to the highest standards of honesty, citizenship,
and sportsmanship; and (E) not do anything that, in the
opinion of the Commissioner of the NBA, is materially
detrimental or materially prejudicial to the best interests of
the NBA Team, the NBA, the NBADL or the NBADL
team.
(ii) During or in connection with any NBADL Work
Assignment, the NBADL, the player's NBADL team, the
NBA and the player's NBA Team may impose a fine
and/or suspension on the player for the violation of
NBADL or NBADL team rules or policies or for any
conduct impairing the faithful and thorough discharge of
the duties incumbent upon the player. Any disciplinary
action taken by the NBA or an NBA Team in response to
any act or conduct of a player during an NBADL Work
Assignment will supersede disciplinary action taken by the
NBADL or any NBADL team in response to such act orconduct. The amount of any such fine and/or suspension
that may be imposed by the NBA or an NBA Team shall
be governed by the terms of this Agreement and the
Uniform Player Contract and shall not be limited by any
NBADL rules, policies, practices, procedures, or fine
schedules.
(iii) A fine or suspension imposed by the NBADL or NBADL
team in connection with a player's NBADL Work
Assignment may be heard and resolved by the Grievance
Arbitrator pursuant to Article XXXI of this Agreement
only if it results in a financial impact to the player of more
than \$5,000. For purposes of paragraph 16(a)(ii) of a
player's Uniform Player Contract, during or in connection
with any NBADL Work Assignment, (A) the terms "any
official or employee of the Team or the NBA (other than
another player)" will be construed to include, without
limitation, any official or employee of the NBADL or the
player's NBADL team (other than another player), and
(B) the terms "any NBA game or event" will be construed
to include, without limitation, any NBADL game or event.
(f) Medical Treatment and Physical Condition.
(i) The NBADL and/or NBADL team may make public
medical information about a player on an NBADL Work
Assignment, provided that such information relates solely
to the reasons why any such player has not been or is not
performing services with the NBADL team. With respect
to the foregoing, a player or his immediate family (where
appropriate) shall have the right to approve the terms and
timing of any public release of medical information relating
to any injuries or illnesses suffered by the player that are
potentially life- or career- threatening, or that do not arise
from the player's participation in NBADL games or
practices.
(ii) For purposes of paragraphs 7, 16(a)(iii), 16(b), and 16(c) of
the player's Uniform Player Contract, the terms "basketball
practice or game played for the Team" or "playing for theTeam" will be construed to include, without limitation, any
practice or game played in the NBADL during an NBADL
Work Assignment.
(g) Prohibited Substances. During any NBADL Work Assignment,
the player (i) shall be subject to Article XXXIII (Anti-Drug Program) of
this Agreement and paragraph 8 of the Uniform Player Contract, and
(ii) shall not be subject to any anti-drug program maintained by the NBADL.
(h) Player Attributes and Performances. Notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in this Agreement, the Uniform Player Contract, or the
Group License Agreement, with respect to any player who serves or has
served on an NBADL Work Assignment:
(i) the NBA and its related entities (including, without
limitation, NBA Teams), and the NBADL and its related
entities (including, without limitation, NBADL teams),
shall have the right to use, and to license others to use,
such player's Player Attributes (as defined in the Group
License Agreement) in connection with:
(1) any advertising, marketing, or collateral materials or
marketing programs conducted by the NBADL or
any NBADL team that is intended to promote
(1) any game in which an NBADL team participates
or any NBADL game telecast or broadcast (including
NBADL pre-season, exhibition, regular season, or
playoff games), (2) the NBADL, its teams or its
players, or (3) the sport of basketball; and
(2) the manufacturing, distribution, sale, advertising (in
any media whatsoever), marketing, or promotion of
any product or service, subject to the applicable
terms of the Group License Agreement.
(ii) the NBA and its related entities (including, without
limitation, NBA Teams), and the NBADL and its related
entities (including, without limitation, NBADL teams),
shall have the right to use, and to license others to use, any
performance of such player in connection with any form ofbroadcast or telecast, including over-the-air television, cable
television, pay television, direct broadcast satellite
television, and any form of cassette, cartridge, disk system,
or other means of distribution known or unknown.
(i) Promotional Activities. In connection with a player's NBADL
Work Assignment, the rights accorded to the NBA and his NBA Team
under paragraph 13(a) of the Uniform Player Contract shall extend,
without limitation, to the NBADL and his NBADL team, and any
promotional appearances such player is required to make while on his
NBADL Work Assignment shall count against the appearances the player
is obligated to provide to the NBA and his NBA Team under Article II,
Section 8; provided, however, that such player will be required to provide
two (2) additional promotional appearances while on assignment each
Season to the NBADL or his NBADL team.
Section 5. Miscellaneous.
(a) With respect to the duties and obligations of players under
paragraph 5 of the Uniform Player Contract (relating to Article 35 of the
NBA Constitution) during or in connection with any NBADL Work
Assignment:
(i) the terms "game" or "games" in Article 35(b) and (c) of the
Constitution will be construed to include, without
limitation, any game played by an NBADL team;
(ii) the term "basketball" or "game of basketball" in Article
35(c) and (d) of the Constitution will be construed to
include, without limitation, the NBADL or any of its
teams;
(iii) the prohibition concerning wagering in Article 35(f) of the
Constitution will extend, without limitation, to any game
played by an NBADL team; and
(iv) the Commissioner's authority to act pursuant to paragraph
5(e) of the Uniform Player Contract will extend, without
limitation, to any game played by an NBADL team.(b) A player shall not directly or indirectly own or hold any interest in
the NBADL or any NBADL team unless authorized by the NBA.
(c) At the conclusion of each Season covered by this Agreement, the
NBA and the Players Association shall meet to discuss issues concerning
the operation of this Article.